# Introduction

# Concept
Incentiviced community publishing utilizes cryptocurrency and blockchain concepts to instigate author collaboration in single published works. The primary function is the block tree design concept that uses three basic ideas to link multiple "blocks" into a single subject that can be branched into multiple narratives within the same subject. The three pieces of the Block Tree Publishing concept are blocks, branching, and incentivization. Each block is similar to a page or chapter in a story with many blocks linked together to form an entire book. In your typical physical book page 1 leads to page 2 and eventually to page 500, the end. With branching the link between pages is not as linear. Similar to how development models utilizing git can fork the main branch at any point to create a testing branch, the narrative of a subject can branch off from the end of page 1 linking directly to page 25. The incentive relies on cryptocurrency standards and implementation allowing for blocks to be sold and owned. All three of these functions combined allow for multiple written works to naturally grow with an incentive that builds off of collaborating with authors that have come before.

Standard publishing models already have a firm understanding on how to break up written word into easily managable pieces. A block in the publishing context is no different then these concepts within standard publishing. A block can be anything within the written work that may cause a divergence within the narrative of that work. Examples of blocks might be as simple as a paragraph within a fictional story or as complex as an entire section of a research paper. How blocks are defined is completely within the author's purview. The major deciding factor of block size is the economic incentive of selling these blocks. Each reader will purchase ownership of these blocks. If the reader enjoys the narrative enough to keep reading, they will eventually purchase all the blocks along that branch; This is effectively the same as purchasing an entire book. The economics of each individual work would rely on the block size for that work. The author could decide a block is each page of a 500 page novel and you've created a pay per page business model. Simply writing an entire chapter into a single block creates a pay per chapter model. This may create confusion surrounding actual costs of the book which makes the real metric word count. Again, this is something standard publishing models have used as their base metric for years. Whether 100 words exist within a block or 10,000 is irrelevant as long as the block concisely convey the author's intent.

Each block, no matter the word count, is linked to another block. These links are linear in nature between blocks, but forward linking can occur on multiple blocks. In other words, you can not link between parallel branch's blocks, but must move forward and backwards within a branch. By using multiple pointers exiting a block you get the branching effect of most forked development models. A title page with links and a brief description of the subject being published is considered the first block of the main branch. The title may point to several first pages or just one depending on how many authors have decided to branch off previous work. Once reading through a branch you cannot skip to parallel branches, but instead move back to the point that branch initially forked and purchase forward linked blocks from that point. Since a reader cannot purchase the next block without owning the previous blocks, they already own the forking block and are simply choosing to buy into the linked blocks of the new branch. At any block within a branch a reader can choose to be an author by simply forking from the block they own to a block they've created. Under the same premise an author can choose to forward link a block into any other branch effectively bypassing parallel blocks and becoming the predecessor to that branch from that block forward. It is the nature of this type of merging into parallel branches that diverges from your typical development model. With git a merge is designed to maintain a historical record with previous code changes by overwriting the current commit. Block tree publishing is a non-destructive model maximizing the choices available to the reader. It is imperative that parallel branches are not destroyed by another authors work. The incentive to fork a new branch is not to edit anothers work, but to add to it; Even if that means circumventing outdated or erroneous information. 

Incentivization is similar to how we incentivize becoming an author in standard publishing. The author is paid for the work and the more people that purchase the better they are paid. By writing a branch in the smallest unit of block measurement a reader is willing to purchase, it maximizes the profit while simultaneously incentivizing other authors to branch off of the work. Imitation is the best form of flattery and in this case a reader's desire to purchase an imitating author's work must first lead down the branch of the predecessor's work. Both authors involved are paid for the appropriate amount of effort within a subject. The positive enforcement on imitation is an incentive to remove copyright from the publishing model. Not only should all blocks be publically available in a decentralized system, allowing for recognition of copyright infringements at attempted publication, but those with a proclivity to infringe upon an authors copyright are incentivized to branch their own work within the same subject, or universe, of the previous author. A pay per block model creates a theoretical free market within the subject, further incentivizing the readers to condemn branches obfuscating the infringement efforts of an author's copyright by simply not reading or purchasing the offending branch. The economics of the market can correct itself against the infringements. The author's best bet becomes engaging with their fanbase to ensure free market mechanics persist on their branches.

# Examples

### Literature

Choose Your Own Adventure® began in 1979 as a series of book first published by Bantam Books in order to capture a younger reading audience. The series was a direct decendant of the popular Role Play Games of the 1970's being an adventure in novel form. The CYOA books gave the reader a choice on each page with instructions to "turn to page #" in order to read the concequences of the reader's choices. Some of these pages would end the story and others would lead to more choices. The choice based adventure lends itself very well to block tree publishing. The major core concepts of both align with every page of the CYOA series being a block that allows readers to choose which page they proceed to next. Each choice of the Adventure is a branch within block tree publishing. 

Several advantages exist to block tree publishing over the CYOA series. First, it is easy to choose the "wrong path" in CYOA where every choice you make seems to lead to an abrupt end. Block tree publishing doesn't have this limitation as branches can point to another branch. Second, CYOA books were limited to the print space of a physical page, limited space on the page also limits the number of choices presented, and physical book length meant a percentage of those pages were taken up by endings that may have only been a paragraph in length leaving a lot of empty space on that page. The author is presented with decisions to either write a full page of story limiting choices, writing lots of choices with minimal story, or writing an ending that wastes space. None of these are an issue in block tree publishing since there are no physical limitations to electronic pubishing. Of course converting CYOA to any form of electronic publishing removes a majority of these issues. However, The ability for readers to be converted into authors and branch their own choices is the real advantage to block tree publishing.

[Choose Your Own Adventure®](https://www.cyoa.com/)

The Lord of the Rings by J.R.R. Tolkien has sold approximately 150 million copies establishing the form of an epic fantasy genre. The level of world building that Tolkien brought to literature allowed for a world where things could be happening outside of the context of the main story. Since the first publication of the Lord of the Rings in 1937, several authors have expanded the original mythos. Quite a few of these were licensed authors by the Tolkien estate and even more were not. However, the authors of these unlicensed fan based fictions can be very good at weaving their narrative directly into the Tolkien mythos. Several of these authors, over the decades, have been noticed by the Tolkien estate and converted to licensed authors. Block tree publishing removes the round about nature of this licensing and directly taps into those authors that may know the mythos almost as well as J.R.R. Tolkien himself. The expansion of the mythos directly benefits the Tolkien estate since they would own the original authorship to the Lord of the Rings blocks and any fiction by "unlicensed" authors would be branching directly off of the work the Tolkien estate published.

[The Tolkien Estate©](http://www.tolkienestate.com/en/home.html)

Block tree publishing gives an incentive for the original author or currator of that work to promote fan fiction in their work. This holds true to any genre. The style or size of the subject is irrelevant. If an author doesn't properly convey the style of the original author, few will read that branch. It will be those authors that know and understand the context, style, universe, and work of another author that will drive the popularity of that author while giving credit and incentives to those that deserve it. 

### Research Papers

The Theory of Special Relativity was originally proposed on September 26, 1905 in a paper titled "On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies" by Albert Einstein. The paper had two parts, Kinematical and Electrodynamical, which each had five subsections. The paper took several years of peer review before it became apperant of how fundamentally important the postulates within would be for physics. Many physics papers of today rely heavily on the postulates formulated by Einstein. Originally published physically in 1905 the paper is a good example of the benefits of utilizing block tree publishing on research papers. The conversion of a Paper on Special Relativity would start with the title block with a synopsis of the two postulates and two forward linking branches: Kinematical Part and Electrodynamical Part. Both branches would make up a link list of five blocks with each block being a subsection of the paper. The nature of the second branch relies heavily on the information presented in the first branch, so the last block of the first branch can also link to the first block of the second branch. Those ten blocks constitutes the entirety of the Theory of Special Relativity and as other Physicists peer review the paper they purchase each block. In reality the purchase of Einstein's paper was paid to the journal it was printed in, but with block tree publishing and cryptocurrency the purchase of blocks go directly to Einstein. Anyone, to this day, that purchases the blocks would have directly supporting Einstein as a scientist. However, this is not the only means block tree publishing would have benefited the paper. Every peer reviewer would have the option to fork at any of the blocks in order to create their own branch illustrating the findings of their own experimentation. Imagine what a block tree publication would look like after a century of peer review and scientific advancements on one of the most prolific scientific discoveries in physics.

### Personal Journals

Nicola Tesla was one of the greatest electrical engineers to have lived. He understood electricity so well that he hardly ever experimented in a formal scientific method primarily relying on his own notes and journals. Tesla's most prominant invention was Alternating Current. The AC generator was presented to Thomas Edison by Tesla and was promptly told by Edison "It would kill everyone". Today we live off of AC power and consider Thomas Edison the greatest American inventor that ever lived. Why? Because he built an electric company that eventually brought AC power to the entire United States. Tesla died poor and his journals have been lost ever since. If Tesla had written his journals by utilizing block tree publishing they would have been immutable and Edison's claims refuted at publication. The journals would not have been lost because they would have been decentralized on the network for any of us to purchase per block.

### Geneology

Geneology is a representation of genetic and family history typically in the form of a family tree. The way geneology charts are organized is similar to a block tree published structure. An entire family can be represented within the block tree publishing on the blockchain. Branches in this regard would be identical to a branch in a family tree. Family tokens can be generated for membership to the family tree creating private geneology charts and levels of administration specific to different branches. Furthering the idea of publication, each individual within the family is the represented block and can be given complete control of their block. These personal blocks can then be utilized for journal entries, lessons from life, or any other message the individual would like to accessible to future generations.

### Lectures

Richard Feynman wrote one of the greatest set of lectures on Physics to an extent that several classes, to this day, still use his lectures. These lectures are primarily based on breaking the basics down into their most easily understood parts and slowly building students capabilities up into more difficult concepts. Some students absolutely love their physics classes because the lectures work with their method of thinking. Other student despise physics because they have a different method of understanding. This is just the nature of human thought and the difference in how we interact with the world. While Feynam's lecture do a good job of including as many people as possible they still alienate others and this may require a different method of explaination. Block tree publishing would allow a professionals like Feynman to publish his lectures in sections for other teachers to use in their lectures. Feynman would have a simple monetization stream beyond the confines of the University through teachers purchasing the sections, or blocks, they need. Alienation that may occur in the classroom can be identified as a seperate method of understanding. A new lecture based on teaching the alienated can be developed by the teacher. This new lecture can branch directly off of the subject it pertains to and any teachers can use this lecture in future teachings.

Education is the key to progress and block tree publishing offers an incentive to progression while utilizing the development style of the scientific method. Eventually, teachers will stop purchasing the ineffective lectures and a form of peer review will have taken place. Only the best lectures would evolve and progress education further.

[The Feynam Lectures on Physics](http://www.feynmanlectures.caltech.edu/)

# Problems Solved

Scientific Journals as a problem

 However, this is not been the case in several modern means of publishing. Block tree completely removes the need for a corporate publishing entity and shifts the it towards a choice of the author. Pseudo self publishing concepts have sprung up since the internet's inception, but these cases still rely on a single central agency of authority taking a large percentage of the price.


# Roadmap